This is game is quite complex, and the simple rules I provided may not be enough for everyone.
This will explain the game in better detail.

OBJECTIVE: Reach the inhabitable planet. Every three seconds, you iterate one day, and you travel a certain disctance.
Your objective is to travel the distance between Earth, and the distant planet.

SOME STUFF TO KNOW: This is a resource, and people management game. People are given random names, and trades. Depending on the trade, the more
points you'll get into a certain field. There are five fields: medicine, education, faith, military, and politics.
These points max out at 10, and can be a minimum of 0.
You can use these points to complete tasks, however it is best to stay in the high point range for a variety of benefits.

Encounters can occur with various different objects. These can be satelites, space debris, deep space probes, planets, asteroids, or comets.
You can land on the larger ones and begin mining for resources. Or salvage the smaller ones.
(There are also encounters with people, and they can heavily influence the point systems)
External dangers also exist, and unexpected events can occur that damage the components in your ship.
(These events can also be internal)

Sanity is a basic human characteristic, and it exists in this game under STY.
This will go down, or up (with a max of 100, and a min of 0) depending on events that could happen.
Negative impacts could cause sanity to decrease, but positive impacts could cause sanity to increase.
Once someomone reaches 0 sanity, there is a chance that they will open the airlock and kill everyone.

	BASIC FUNCTIONS: To exit to the main screen, you can press ESC at any time. Besides that, you can press "c" for console,
"i" for information, and "a" for antenna.

	THE CONSOLE is the most important part of the game. It is where you can made actions.
Console navigation is quite simple, you can type in the options on the screen, and it will take you to them.
Press ENTER to enter that field, and BACKSPACE to erase everything you were typing.

The console has 3 different sections: ME, CREW, and SHIP.

The first option is complements towards you, the commander. It's a good ego boost.
The second option is to have access to the people who inahbit the ship, and monitor their stats.
The third option is to monitor the stats of the ship more closely, and also incubate children.

	THE ANTENNA allows you to see the basic information about the ship.
O2 is OXYGEN, FOD is FOOD, H2O is WATER, TMP is TEMPERATURE, and PRS is PRESSURE.

O2 is dependant on OxyGens, FOD is dependant on NutritionGens, H2O is dependant on filters. But TMP and PRS is affected externally (planets, asteroids, comets).
If a day passes with O2 at 0, everyone dies. Is a week passes without H2O, everyone dies.
Hunger scales to a maximum of 60 days to Faith after 6, but by default 30 days is enough to die. 
A day with over 350K or 100PSI will cause everyone to die.

OxyGens, NutritionGens, and WaterPurifiers can be destroyed, and require education points to repair.

	THE INFORMATION BOOKLET is also refered to as "The Deep space Voyager Handbook™" due to it's explanatory capabilites.
You can basically find this information there, except much more simple.

	CREW: These are the people on the ship, they will all inevitably die at around the age of 85, and also need to birthed into this world.
People are first born as one of three options: CHILD, PRODIGY, and MIRACLE.
The prodigy has a 5% chance of being born, and the miracle has a 1/1000 chance of being born.
After reaching the age of 18, they persue a trade. Depending on how giften they are, the more points go towards that trade.
If there are no more poeple on the ship, the game ends because humanity perished.

	SHIP: This is the area which you live in. Parts of this was heavily discussed, however there is more to mention.
The ship has two different types of substance it stores: Fuel, and Radioacitve Material.
Fuel is essentially hydrogen, and radioactive material is usually Pu-239.
Fuel is released to accelerate, and radioactive material is converted to electricity by the Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators.
You constantly use electricity, so Radioactive Material is very useful.
The artificial womb is a crucial part of the ship, is allows humanity to continue.
The artificial womb can only be used if there are less than 9 people on the ship, and is gametes are available.
If there are less than 10% gametes capacity left, you lose because there is no way to coninute huamnity.
The fetus takes 9 months to fully grow, and will not be of any use for the first 18 years of their life.

SALVAGING A RESOURCE: To salvage a resource, simply confirm the salvaging request.
	If you have enough materials to salvage it, the salvaging process will begin.
After the salvaging is complete, the system returns what you have recieved from the salvage.
In the first few Astronomical Units of the game, you will modtly see space debris, and satelites.
Later on you may find a deep space probe.

	LANDING: To land on something, you have to confirm the landing sequence.
Landing costs fuel, and lifting off costs fuel, so you have to be careful.
There is typically a limit to how long you can stay on something.
Comets release large amounts of heat, you will exceed the heat limit and die if you stay on one for too long. However, there is loads of fuel on them.
Asteroid provide you with lots of pressure, and you will die if you exceed a pressure limit. But they do contain Radioacitve Material.
Planets seem relatively safe, and they provide you with both resources. However they are unpredicatable.

	ARGUMENTS AND CONCERNS: Those who inhabit your ship may face problems sometimes, and it's your job to sort them out.
They could be mild fears, or insignificant complaints. However, sometimes they can result in you losing the game.
You have to be careful with what you select, because an incorrect selection can cause a loss in sanity.
The descisions are usually based on the trade of the person, or tension between two people from previous arguments.
If you have high politics, you may be able to execute certain crew members if they are argumentative with a majority of others.
Crew members are more likely to feel comfortable if military is higher, this also extends the age expectancy.
Crew members can face health emergencies, and they will perish if they do not receive medication quickly.
This can me proivided from the medicine stat, and can greatly improve your survivability.

